feat: add post about HEY (#158)
jsjoeio/joeprevite.com: content/2020-06-16-hey-email-review/index.md

---
slug: 'hey-email-review'
date: '2020-06-16'
title: 'HEY Email Review'
description: 'My first impressions and review of the HEY email platform by the folks at Basecamp.'
tagline: 'First impressions and thoughts'
published: true
tags: ['Productivity']
---

My friend Martin [(@spindriftboi](https://twitter.com/spindriftboi)) shared an invite code with me yesterday for [HEY email](https://hey.com/). I quickly joined (sad I didn't get joe@hey.com) and started testing it out.

> Honestly, the scariest part is asking yourself, "Did I choose the right domain? Should I have gone with X or Y instead of Z?"

Author: ```suggestion
Honestly, the scariest part is asking yourself, "Did I choose the right name? Should I have gone with X or Y instead of Z?"
```

In the end, it probably doesn't matter too much, but that's beside the point. Let's get into it!

## First Impressions

I haven't used all of the features and I've only had access for a day or two, but here are my first impressions.

### Fantastic Onboarding

> I enjoyed the onboarding process. It was easy and straightforward. You choose your email (probably the hardest part), add your personal email, add a password and you're good to go.

Author: ```suggestion
I enjoyed the onboarding process. It was easy and straightforward. You choose your email (probably the hardest part), add your personal email as backup, add a password and you're good to go.
```

### Email Screener

> This is a neat concept. You screen emails before they are allowed in your inbox. It's almost like everything is marked as spam, unless you give it the 👍🏼. Neat idea. Reminds me of Google screening your calls on the Pixel.

Author: ```suggestion
This is a neat concept. You screen emails before they are allowed in your inbox. It's almost like everything is marked as spam, unless you give it the 👍🏼. Cool concept. Reminds me of Google screening your calls on the Pixel.
```

### Smarter Workflows

They break things into three categories, which can loosely be summed up like so:

1. things you might reply to
2. newsletters and marketing
3. papertrail

> I don't even think I need to explain any of them except maybe the last one is for transactional emails (notifications, receipts, etc.).

Author: ```suggestion
I don't even think I need to explain any of them except maybe the last one, which is for transactional emails (notifications, receipts, etc.).
```

### Keyboard Shortcuts

More and more apps these days are prioritizing keyboard shortcuts and HEY is one of them. They teach you them from the start, but they also have a keyboard menu in case you forget them. This alone improves your workflow by at least 10% if not more.

### Design and Style

> I am a sucker for good design and style. This app just feels better. It loads faster than Gmail. The UI looks clean, but has a touch of goodness thanks to some of the "hand-drawn" icons.

Author: ```suggestion
I am a sucker for good design and style. This app just _feels better_. It loads faster than Gmail. The UI looks clean, but has a touch of goodness thanks to some of the "hand-drawn" icons.
```

### Simple Settings

> Gmail's settings need their own wiki. HEY keeps it simple and intuitive.

Author: ```suggestion
Gmail's settings need their own wiki. HEY keeps it simple and intuitive. No wiki needed!
```

### Email Feels Enjoyable

> I don't know what it is - the UI, the cute-touches, the productivity improvements, or the social media-like feel to the app - but this actually makes me _like_ email, or excited to use email. I don't know if I'll say the same thing in a few months (I hope I do!), but it really feels different.

Author: ```suggestion
I don't know what it is - the UI, the cute-touches, the productivity improvements, or the social media-like feel to the app - but **this makes me like email**, or excited to use email. I don't know if I'll say the same thing in a few months (I hope I do!), but it really feels different.
```

### Search That Actually Works™

Gmail search sucks. It never works and we all know it. HEY's search looks promising. At the time of writing, I have tested with about 20 emails, but it actually finds what I am looking for!

### Search All Files

> Similar features like on Telegram, I can search through all my files (which is awesome!). Attachments don't need to be uploaded and categorized elsewhere - I can just search for them when i need them.

Author: ```suggestion
Similar features like on Telegram, I can search through all my files (which is awesome!). Attachments don't need to be uploaded and categorized elsewhere - I can just search for them when I need them.
```

This feels like it should be a feature in Gmail and other email providers.

### Granular Notification Control

> I think back when I was interviewing for jobs (before my current one) and how I constantly checked my email for specific threads. I almost went out of my way to set up special notifications through [IFTTT](https://ifttt.com/) to solve the issue of ONLY getting notifications for particular contacts.

Author: ```suggestion
I think back to when I was interviewing for jobs (before my current one) and how I constantly checked my email for specific threads. I almost went out of my way to set up special notifications through [IFTTT](https://ifttt.com/) to solve the issue of ONLY getting notifications for particular contacts.
```

HEY has this feature out-of-the-box! Pretty sweet.

### Features Missing

I know this is the first launch and it's not guaranteed to have all the bells and whistles so take this with a grain of salt. Here are some things that come to mind:

- scheduling emails (I use it maybe twice a month)
- sending password-encrypted emails (less than 5 times per year)
- search all links shared (like on Telegram)

> That's all that comes to mind. I'll update this if those features or added or if more come to mind.

Author: ```suggestion
I'll update this if those features or added or if more come to mind.
```

### Worth it?

This is tough to answer. Everyone's answer will be different. For me, I think I can only justify $99/year ($8.25/month) for this service/app if it saves me more than it costs.

Lets figure this out together. Say I make $60/hour, or $1/minute. In order for this to be worth it, it would have to save me at least 8.25 minutes per month, or ~2 minutes per week, to be worth it.

Lets now look at some of my stats related to Gmail:

- ~2 mins/day average on iPhone
- ~21 email threads in May

Topics for email threads included:

- replies to newsletter recipients
- non-profit organization advisory board
- apartment complex
- one business transaction
- replies to recruiters
- replies related to blog posts

> I don't have numbers related to how much I spend on my laptop, but it's probably fair to say it's at least the same on my iPhone, if not a lot more. We'll guesstimate and say ~5 minutes a day.

Author: ```suggestion
I don't have numbers related to how much I spend on my laptop, but it's probably fair to say it's at least the same on my iPhone, if not a lot more. We'll guesstimate and say ~5 minutes a day total (iPhone  + Desktop). And that's being conservative. 
```

> I guess that I spend **at least 7 minutes per day on email** and use it to communicate for my own business and personal needs. If it saves me 2 minutes or more per day ($2), then I would save $14/week or $56/month which is well worth the $8.25/month.

Author: ```suggestion
I guess that I spend **at least 7 minutes per day on email** and use it to communicate for my own business and personal needs. If it saves me 2 minutes or more per day ($2), then I would save $14/week or $56/month which is well worth the $8.25/month.
```
```suggestion
Say I spend **at least 75 minutes per day on email** and use it to communicate for my own business and personal needs. If it saves me 2 minutes or more per day ($2), then I would save $14/week or $56/month which is well worth the $8.25/month.
```

And this is only one way of justifying it! We could do it from an enjoyment perspective. If HEY provides me with a happy emailing experience (and email is essential to my business, or at least will be down the road when I'm selling content products), then it is worth it from that side as well.

## Overall

Big fan of HEY so far! I'll update this post as I explore more features or have more thoughts. If you get the chance to, I recommend checking it out!

> Like I said, I think this is going to **change the way we think about email**.

Author: ```suggestion
I predict this will **radically change the way we think about email**.
```

Feel free to shoot me an email on HEY with your thoughts. jprevite at hey

<Note>

> Note: I used to work in the front-end space. I am a big fan of productivity apps and a sucker for good design and good marketing so take what I share here with a grain of salt.

Author: ```suggestion
Note: I used to work in the world of front-end development. I am a big fan of productivity apps and a sucker for good design and good marketing so take what I share here with a grain of salt.
```
